---
title: "GitHub - turboderp-org/exllamav2: A fast inference library for running LLMs locally on modern consumer-class GPUs · GitHub"
source_url: "https://github.com/turboderp/exllamav2"
scraped_at: "52189.671"
engine: "Lightpanda (via Playwright)"
---

# GitHub - turboderp-org/exllamav2: A fast inference library for running LLMs locally on modern consumer-class GPUs · GitHub

Source: https://github.com/turboderp/exllamav2

## Content

    Skip to content          Navigation Menu  Toggle navigation                 Sign in      Appearance settings          PlatformAI CODE CREATIONGitHub CopilotWrite better code with AIGitHub SparkBuild and deploy intelligent appsGitHub ModelsManage and compare promptsMCP RegistryNewIntegrate external toolsDEVELOPER WORKFLOWSActionsAutomate any workflowCodespacesInstant dev environmentsIssuesPlan and track workCode ReviewManage code changesAPPLICATION SECURITYGitHub Advanced SecurityFind and fix vulnerabilitiesCode securitySecure your code as you buildSecret protectionStop leaks before they startEXPLOREWhy GitHubDocumentationBlogChangelogMarketplaceView all featuresSolutionsBY COMPANY SIZEEnterprisesSmall and medium teamsStartupsNonprofitsBY USE CASEApp ModernizationDevSecOpsDevOpsCI/CDView all use casesBY INDUSTRYHealthcareFinancial servicesManufacturingGovernmentView all industriesView all solutionsResourcesEXPLORE BY TOPICAISoftware DevelopmentDevOpsSecurityView all topicsEXPLORE BY TYPECustomer storiesEvents & webinarsEbooks & reportsBusiness insightsGitHub SkillsSUPPORT & SERVICESDocumentationCustomer supportCommunity forumTrust centerPartnersView all resourcesOpen SourceCOMMUNITYGitHub SponsorsFund open source developersPROGRAMSSecurity LabMaintainer CommunityAcceleratorGitHub StarsArchive ProgramREPOSITORIESTopicsTrendingCollectionsEnterpriseENTERPRISE SOLUTIONSEnterprise platformAI-powered developer platformAVAILABLE ADD-ONSGitHub Advanced SecurityEnterprise-grade security featuresCopilot for BusinessEnterprise-grade AI featuresPremium SupportEnterprise-grade 24/7 supportPricing         Search or jump to...        Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests...      Search              Clear                   Search syntax tips               Provide feedback          We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously.   Include my email address so I can be contacted    Cancel  Submit feedback          Saved searches  Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly              Name       Query   To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.          Cancel  Create saved search        Sign in   Sign up      Appearance settings   Resetting focus        You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session. You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.   Dismiss alert               turboderp-org   /  exllamav2  Public          Notifications  You must be signed in to change notification settings    Fork 331      Star  4.5k             Code      Issues 138     Pull requests 20     Discussions      Actions      Projects      Security and quality 0     Insights         Additional navigation options            Code         Issues         Pull requests         Discussions         Actions         Projects         Security and quality         Insights                  turboderp-org/exllamav2   master3 Branches43 TagsGo to fileCodeOpen more actions menuFolders and filesNameNameLast commit messageLast commit dateLatest committurboderpUpdate README.mdMar 4, 20267dc12af · Mar 4, 2026History1,459 CommitsOpen commit details1,459 Commits.github.githubActions: Update for torch 2.9Dec 9, 2025docdocFix extra parenthesis typo (#559)Jul 22, 2024evalevalHumanEval: Rename new args to match other scriptsSep 29, 2024examplesexamplesAdd support for Mistral 3.1 VLMApr 18, 2025exllamav2exllamav2ExllamaV2: Bump versionJul 13, 2025experimentalexperimentalPixtral exampleNov 12, 2024teststestsRemove fasttensors, add platform-agnostic multithreaded ST loaderSep 16, 2024utilutilFix converting files with docker commandFeb 21, 2024.gitignore.gitignorebetter gitignoreFeb 5, 2024LICENSELICENSEAdd licenseSep 12, 2023MANIFEST.inMANIFEST.inimprove installation experience (#666)Nov 2, 2024README.mdREADME.mdUpdate README.mdMar 4, 2026convert.pyconvert.pyMove conversion script into exllamav2 packageJun 21, 2024model_diff.pymodel_diff.pyFix model_diff scriptJul 6, 2024requirements.txtrequirements.txtRemove SentencePiece supportMay 14, 2025setup.pysetup.pyRemove sentencepiece dep from setup.pyMay 28, 2025test_inference.pytest_inference.pyTest script: Allow --eval_rows in wiki2 ppl testJan 9, 2025View all filesRepository files navigationREADMEMIT licenseNote This project is archived for now. Development continues on ExLlamaV3. ExLlamaV2 ExLlamaV2 is an inference library for running local LLMs on modern consumer GPUs. The official and recommended backend server for ExLlamaV2 is TabbyAPI, which provides an OpenAI-compatible API for local or remote inference, with extended features like HF model downloading, embedding model support and support for HF Jinja2 chat templates. See the wiki for help getting started. New in v0.1.0+:  ExLlamaV2 now supports paged attention via Flash Attention 2.5.7+ New generator with dynamic batching, smart prompt caching, K/V cache deduplication and simplified API   Dynamic generator The dynamic generator supports all inference, sampling and speculative decoding features of the previous two generators, consolidated into one API (with the exception of FP8 cache, though the Q4 cache mode is supported and performs better anyway, see here.) The generator is explained in detail here.  Single generation: output = generator.generate(prompt = "Hello, my name is", max_new_tokens = 200)       Batched generation: outputs = generator.generate( prompt = [ "Hello, my name is", "Once upon a time,", "Large language models are", ], max_new_tokens = 200 )       Streamed generation with asyncio: job = ExLlamaV2DynamicJobAsync( generator, input_ids = tokenizer.encode("You can lead a horse to water"), banned_strings = ["make it drink"], gen_settings = ExLlamaV2Sampler.Settings.greedy(), max_new_tokens = 200 ) async for result in job: text = result.get("text", "") print(text, end = "")         See the full, updated examples here. Performance Some quick tests to compare performance with ExLlama V1. There may be more performance optimizations in the future, and speeds will vary across GPUs, with slow CPUs still being a potential bottleneck:    Model Mode Size grpsz act 3090Ti 4090     Llama GPTQ 7B 128 no 181 t/s 205 t/s   Llama GPTQ 13B 128 no 110 t/s 114 t/s   Llama GPTQ 33B 128 yes 44 t/s 48 t/s   OpenLlama GPTQ 3B 128 yes 259 t/s 296 t/s   CodeLlama EXL2 4.0 bpw 34B - - 44 t/s 50 t/s   Llama2 EXL2 3.0 bpw 7B - - 217 t/s 257 t/s   Llama2 EXL2 4.0 bpw 7B - - 185 t/s 211 t/s   Llama2 EXL2 5.0 bpw 7B - - 164 t/s 179 t/s   Llama2 EXL2 2.5 bpw 70B - - 33 t/s 38 t/s   TinyLlama EXL2 3.0 bpw 1.1B - - 656 t/s 770 t/s   TinyLlama EXL2 4.0 bpw 1.1B - - 602 t/s 700 t/s    How to To install from the repo you'll need the CUDA Toolkit and either gcc on Linux or (Build Tools for) Visual Studio on Windows). Also make sure you have an appropriate version of PyTorch, then run: git clone https://github.com/turboderp/exllamav2 cd exllamav2 pip install -r requirements.txt pip install . python test_inference.py -m <path_to_model> -p "Once upon a time," # Append the '--gpu_split auto' flag for multi-GPU inference      A simple console chatbot is included. Run it with: python examples/chat.py -m <path_to_model> -mode llama -gs auto      The -mode argument chooses the prompt format to use. raw will produce a simple chatlog-style chat that works with base models and various other finetunes. Run with -modes for a list of all available prompt formats. You can also provide a custom system prompt with -sp. Integration and APIs   TabbyAPI is a FastAPI-based server that provides an OpenAI-style web API compatible with SillyTavern and other frontends.   ExUI is a simple, standalone single-user web UI that serves an ExLlamaV2 instance directly with chat and notebook modes.   text-generation-webui supports ExLlamaV2 through the exllamav2 and exllamav2_HF loaders.   lollms-webui supports ExLlamaV2 through the exllamav2 binding.   Installation Method 1: Install from source To install the current dev version, clone the repo and run the setup script: git clone https://github.com/turboderp/exllamav2 cd exllamav2 pip install -r requirements.txt pip install .      By default this will also compile and install the Torch C++ extension (exllamav2_ext) that the library relies on. You can skip this step by setting the EXLLAMA_NOCOMPILE environment variable: EXLLAMA_NOCOMPILE= pip install .      This will install the "JIT version" of the package, i.e. it will install the Python components without building the C++ extension in the process. Instead, the extension will be built the first time the library is used, then cached in ~/.cache/torch_extensions for subsequent use. Method 2: Install from release (with prebuilt extension) Releases are available here, with prebuilt wheels that contain the extension binaries. Make sure to grab the right version, matching your platform, Python version (cp) and CUDA version. Crucially, you must also match the prebuilt wheel with your PyTorch version, since the Torch C++ extension ABI breaks with every new version of PyTorch. Either download an appropriate wheel or install directly from the appropriate URL: pip install https://github.com/turboderp/exllamav2/releases/download/v0.0.12/exllamav2-0.0.12+cu121-cp311-cp311-linux_x86_64.whl      The py3-none-any.whl version is the JIT version which will build the extension on first launch. The .tar.gz file can also be installed this way, and it will build the extension while installing. Method 3: Install from PyPI A PyPI package is available as well. This is the same as the JIT version (see above). It can be installed with: pip install exllamav2      EXL2 quantization ExLlamaV2 supports the same 4-bit GPTQ models as V1, but also a new "EXL2" format. EXL2 is based on the same optimization method as GPTQ and supports 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8-bit quantization. The format allows for mixing quantization levels within a model to achieve any average bitrate between 2 and 8 bits per weight. Moreover, it's possible to apply multiple quantization levels to each linear layer, producing something akin to sparse quantization wherein more important weights (columns) are quantized with more bits. The same remapping trick that lets ExLlama work efficiently with act-order models allows this mixing of formats to happen with little to no impact on performance. Parameter selection is done automatically by quantizing each matrix multiple times, measuring the quantization error (with respect to the chosen calibration data) for each of a number of possible settings, per layer. Finally, a combination is chosen that minimizes the maximum quantization error over the entire model while meeting a target average bitrate. In my tests, this scheme allows Llama2 70B to run on a single 24 GB GPU with a 2048-token context, producing coherent and mostly stable output with 2.55 bits per weight. 13B models run at 2.65 bits within 8 GB of VRAM, although currently none of them uses GQA which effectively limits the context size to 2048. In either case it's unlikely that the model will fit alongside a desktop environment. For now.   Conversion A script is provided to quantize models. Converting large models can be somewhat slow, so be warned. The conversion script and its options are explained in detail here Evaluation A number of evaluaion scripts are provided. See here for details. Community A test community is provided at https://discord.gg/NSFwVuCjRq Quanting service free of charge is provided at #bot test. The computation is generiously provided by the Bloke powered by Lambda labs. HuggingFace repos   I've uploaded a few EXL2-quantized models to Hugging Face to play around with, here.   LoneStriker provides a large number of EXL2 models on Hugging Face.   bartowski has some more EXL2 models on HF.        About A fast inference library for running LLMs locally on modern consumer-class GPUs  Resources   Readme   License   MIT license        Uh oh!   There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.         Activity    Custom properties  Stars   4.5k stars  Watchers   33 watching  Forks   331 forks   Report repository         Releases 43     0.3.2 Latest   Jul 13, 2025    + 42 releases     Sponsor this project        ko-fi.com/turboderp                       Languages            Python 65.9%      Cuda 19.3%      C++ 12.5%      C 2.3%               Footer      © 2026 GitHub, Inc.    Footer navigation   Terms   Privacy   Security   Status   Community   Docs   Contact    Manage cookies      Do not share my personal information             You can’t perform that action at this time.       

---
## Raw Source Metadata
- URL: https://github.com/turboderp/exllamav2
- Title: GitHub - turboderp-org/exllamav2: A fast inference library for running LLMs locally on modern consumer-class GPUs · GitHub
